In this video, we'll demonstrate how proof of
existence works in practice to help you verify digital assets.
To help demonstrate this,
we'll use a service that goes by the same name,
Proof of Existence, also known as POEX.
This online notarization service is built on the Bitcoin blockchain.
If we navigate to this site,
there's a link to a demonstration.
Let's check it out to see how the process works.
The first step is to submit the digital asset you want notarized.
Once you do, POEX creates
a unique identifier linked to the time which the document was submitted.
The digital asset is hashed using sha256.
The next step is that in order for this unique identifier to be recorded,
POEX needs to create a new transaction.
Step three is validation.
Once the transaction is created,
the unique identifier that was created is stored in the blockchain.
Even if this site no longer exists,
evidence of the document will always be there
and it could be found from a Bitcoin blockchain explorer.
Let's take a look at these confirmed document digests.
How about this one here? This is the sha256 generated from the digital asset.
Remember this number. We're navigated to this page with the transaction ID info.
Grab the transaction ID and take a look at it in the blockchain info block explorer.
Next, check out the output scripts.
Notice the return opcode.
To mark this transaction as unspendable,
POEX marks the OP_RETURN operation code.
Also, it appended a unique identifier in front of your documents hash.
This unique identifier converts the phrase DOCPROOF into ASCII.
To search for verified documents,
we can use OP_RETURN to narrow it down.
Some online services like Coin Secrets or
blockchain.infoslist can help you locate OP_RETURN transactions more easily.
To sum it up, these are the steps this specific service uses to validate digital assets;
first a digital asset is hashed using sha256.
Next, that hash is appended to an identifier.
After that, the hash plus the identifier is put into a generated transaction.
Finally, the transaction is marked with OP_RETURN so it's unspendable.
The existence of that transaction in the blockchain proves that
the document existed at the time the transaction got included into a block.
So that wraps up this demonstration, hopefully,
now you have a better idea of how POEX can help you validate digital assets